Goal 1: End poverty in all its forms everywhere
Globally, the number of people living in extreme poverty declined from 36 per cent in 1990 to 10 per cent in 2015. But the pace of change is decelerating and the COVID-19 crisis risks reversing decades of progress in the fight against poverty. New research published by the UNU World Institute for Development Economics Research warns that the economic fallout from the global pandemic could increase global poverty by as much as half a billion people, or 8% of the total human population. This would be the first time that poverty has increased globally in thirty years, since 1990.

More than 700 million people, or 10 per cent of the world population, still live in extreme poverty today, struggling to fulfil the most basic needs like health, education, and access to water and sanitation, to name a few. The majority of people living on less than $1.90 a day live in sub-Saharan Africa. Worldwide, the poverty rate in rural areas is 17.2 per cent—more than three times higher than in urban areas. 

For those who work, having a job does not guarantee a decent living. In fact, 8 per cent of employed workers and their families worldwide lived in extreme poverty in 2018. One out of five children live in extreme poverty. Ensuring social protection for all children and other vulnerable groups is critical to reduce poverty.

COVID-19 response
Developing countries are most at risk during – and in the aftermath – of the pandemic, not only as a health crisis but as a devastating social and economic crisis over the months and years to come. According to UNDP income losses are expected to exceed $220 billion in developing countries, and an estimated 55 per cent of the global population have no access to social protection. These losses will reverberate across societies; impacting education, human rights and, in the most severe cases, basic food security and nutrition.

To support the poorest and most vulnerable, the UN has issued a Framework for the immediate socio-economic response to COVID-19, calling for an extraordinary scale-up of international support and political commitment to ensure that people everywhere have access to essential services and social protection.

The UN COVID-19 Response and Recovery Fund aims to specifically support low- and middle-income countries as well as vulnerable groups who are disproportionately bearing the socio-economic impacts of the pandemic. Women leaders convened by UN Deputy Secretary-General Amina Mohammed have called for support for the UN roadmap for social and economic recovery and for fully funding of the UN Response and Recovery Fund.

More than 700 million people, or 10% of the world population, still live in extreme poverty. Surviving on less than US$1.90 a day.
Having a job does not guarantee a decent living. In fact, 8 per cent of employed workers and their families worldwide lived in extreme poverty in 2018.
Globally, there are 122 women aged 25 to 34 living in extreme poverty for every 100 men of the same age group.
The majority of people living on less than $1.90 a day live in sub-Saharan Africa.
High poverty rates are often found in small, fragile and conflict-affected countries.
Poverty affects children disproportionately. One out of five children live in extreme poverty.
As of 2018, 55% of the world’s population have no access to social protection.
In 2018, only 41% of women giving birth received maternity cash benefits.


1.1 By 2030, eradicate extreme poverty for all people everywhere, currently measured as people living on less than $1.25 a day

1.2 By 2030, reduce at least by half the proportion of men, women and children of all ages living in poverty in all its dimensions according to national definitions

1.3 Implement nationally appropriate social protection systems and measures for all, including floors, and by 2030 achieve substantial coverage of the poor and the vulnerable

1.4 By 2030, ensure that all men and women, in particular the poor and the vulnerable, have equal rights to economic resources, as well as access to basic services, ownership and control over land and other forms of property, inheritance, natural resources, appropriate new technology and financial services, including microfinance

1.5 By 2030, build the resilience of the poor and those in vulnerable situations and reduce their exposure and vulnerability to climate-related extreme events and other economic, social and environmental shocks and disasters

1.A Ensure significant mobilization of resources from a variety of sources, including through enhanced development cooperation, in order to provide adequate and predictable means for developing countries, in particular least developed countries, to implement programmes and policies to end poverty in all its dimensions

1.B Create sound policy frameworks at the national, regional and international levels, based on pro-poor and gender-sensitive development strategies, to support accelerated investment in poverty eradication actions

United Nations Development Programme
World Bank
UN Children’s Fund
International Monetary Fund
UN Global Compact
UNESCO
UN International Strategy for Disaster Reduction

List of Parties that signed the Paris Agreement on 22 April
20 Apr 2016
The Paris Agreement opened for signature by the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on 22 April and will remain open for signature for one year. Did your country sign on the first day? Find out here.

World Oceans Day: Don’t be colour blind, help blue oceans keep the planet green  Gallery
World Oceans Day: Don’t be colour blind, help blue oceans keep the planet green
08 Jun 2020
The COVID-19 pandemic is a “sharp reminder” of how we are all intimately connected to each other and to nature, the UN chief said on Monday, World Oceans Day.

As consumption rises, here’s why sustainable fisheries management matters  Gallery
As consumption rises, here’s why sustainable fisheries management matters
08 Jun 2020
Global consumption of fish hit a record high in 2018 and is set to rise in the decade ahead, highlighting the need to ensure sustainable fisheries management, according to the latest report by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO).

Bringing the coral reefs back to life  Gallery
Bringing the coral reefs back to life
07 Jun 2020
Coral reefs are being killed by the climate crisis, which is leading to rising sea temperatures. “Cryopreservation”, a pioneering scientific technique”, could be one way to save them. Read Full Story on UN News


World Oceans Day: Don’t be colour blind, help blue oceans keep the planet green
08 Jun 2020|News
The COVID-19 pandemic is a “sharp reminder” of how we are all intimately connected to each other and to nature, the UN chief said on Monday, World Oceans Day.

As consumption rises, here’s why sustainable fisheries management matters
08 Jun 2020|News
Global consumption of fish hit a record high in 2018 and is set to rise in the decade ahead, highlighting the need to ensure sustainable fisheries management, according to the latest report by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO).

Bringing the coral reefs back to life
07 Jun 2020|Featured, Goal 13: Climate Action, News
Coral reefs are being killed by the climate crisis, which is leading to rising sea temperatures. “Cryopreservation”, a pioneering scientific technique”, could be one way to save them. Read Full Story on UN News

Food Safety Day: Everyone has a role to play
07 Jun 2020|Featured, Goal 3: Good Health, News
Eating contaminated food has caused an estimated 600 million people in the world, or almost one-in-ten individuals, to fall ill – 420,000 of whom die every year, two UN specialized agencies highlighted on Sunday, World [...]